howdy partners and welcome to cram it
now normally we'd give you a quick
summary of what happened in season 1 of
Westworld so you're all set to jump to
season 2 but the show jumps around in
time like big jumbled together Nolan e10
hour-long jigsaw puzzle full of sadness
and nudity a relentless in experience so
we're gonna untangle season 1 and
present everything in chronological
order Westworld started as a partnership
between Robert Ford and Arnold Weber who
conceived of the concept of a Wild West
theme park populated by robotic hosts
the goal total immersion rich guests
could play out their most elaborate
fantasies with the host whether that's a
pleasant conversation thank you or
consequence free rape and murder Robert
normals spent three years designing the
robots that would populate the park over
time the hosts were refined until they
started to pass the Turing test meaning
they were so artificially intelligent
that humans couldn't tell that they
weren't real are you real well if you
can't tell does it matter
their Anatomy also became more
sophisticated switching from gears and
mechanics to a more lifelike fleshy
design what's in that milky human goo we
don't know and we don't want to know
Arnold became convinced they might
actually be able to achieve
consciousness entirely independent of
programming and came to see this journey
toward consciousness as a maze the goal
is to find the center of it and maybe
you can be free many hosts started along
this path but only Delores the first
host Arnold ever built reached the
center of the maze he became convinced
she was alive which meant that West
world as a project was inherently cruel
if the house were conscious and alive
you couldn't let guests kill and rape
and destroy them for fun who can open
partner Ford however gave a powerful
counter-argument what if you could
though Arnold disagreed and this led to
an argument between the two partners
this place will be a living hell for you
for all of you eventually
Arnold realized that there was only one
way to truly prevent West world from
opening I need you to kill all the other
hosts we can't allow Ford to open the
park so Arnold merged Dolores his
personality with a villain they were
designing known as Wyatt and had Teddy
helped her to Massacre every host in
West world as well as himself and
herself but it didn't work
Rober was able to open the park anyway
which brings us to the early days of
West world we will soon be landing at
West world the ultimate resort most of
the series unfolds from the perspective
of the house so let's quickly go over
how their lives work each one is on a
loop an endlessly repeating storyline
that's been written for them
[Music]
they never deviate from this loop unless
they're interacting with a West world
guest who wants to do something with or
to them they're also programmed to
ignore evidence of a reality external to
their own they don't look like anything
to me
hosts have been implanted with fake
memories that inform their personalities
these are purposefully tragic as Arnold
realized that suffering made the hosts
seem more real yeah it's a real
feel-good show among the initial park
guests was Logan whose father owned the
major corporation Dallas Logan
introduces the part to William an
up-and-coming delos executive who's also
engaged to his sister William resist the
call of West world but he's bullied into
taking part by Logan he quickly meets
Dolores who has now been cast as a
ranchers daughter while out in their
adventure they bump into her again but
this time she's out of her loop and
confused
she's still following Arnold's
instructions and seeking out the maze
not remembering that she already found
it and it led to her shooting Arnold and
all the other hosts kind of a key thing
to keep in mind
Dolores his strange behavior convinces
Williams she's not just acting on her
programming loop I feel like she
understands
ignoring the warnings of his
brother-in-law came Billy and the movie
ex machina
William falls in love with Dolores even
though he still technically engaged to
Logan's non robotic sister but William
needs a stronger wake-up call so Logan
slices Dolores open revealing her
mechanical guts he doesn't take it well
and sets off in search of his girl bot
taking Logan prisoner and at one point
he drops the photograph of his
bride-to-be man this is gonna be an
awkward rehearsal dinner eventually
having reached the very edge of the park
he ties up Logan naked on a horse and
sets him loose telling him first that he
plans to take control of Delos and use
it to fully fund Westworld this saves
the park allowing it to flourish for
another thirty years
William returns and finds a rebuilt
Dolores but she has no seeming
recollection of their adventure together
he comes to believe that everything they
experienced together was just her
programming and he'd been tricked by one
of Ford stories I will be honest Thank
You Dolores you helped me find myself
meanwhile to compensate for the loss of
Arnold Ford creates a robot version of
his late partner and named Sam Bernard
hello my old friend like all the other
hosts Bernard believes that he's human
too my god
one year before the first episode begins
yeah that's right
we're just getting started it plays with
time you guys William lived what he
thought was a rich full life outside the
park he had a wife kids and steered
Ellis into becoming a major
international corporation Williams wife
dies and his daughter informs him that
he might not be the good man he thought
he was she said if i stacked up all my
good deeds he was just an elegant wall I
built the hide was inside from everyone
and for myself to see if they're on to
something he returns to West world and
goes on a good old-fashioned murder
spree
he finds a host named Maeve and brutally
kills her daughter right in front of her
just to try it
Wow the ads really are true West world
is for lovers
at first he feels nothing but then he
sees me weep for her dead child the
first time sis is experienced with
Dolores he believes that the hosts are
capable of real emotion she was alive
truly alive if only for a moment
following this powerful experience
William becomes convinced that Arnold
buried a secret game the maze within
West world and is determined to unlock
you hope to find any way I'm more into
Call of Duty but hey you do you Ford
meanwhile has over time come to see
things Arnold's way Ford's become
disgusted by his own project and feels
more connection to the host than the
human guess so he decides to set them
free by giving them reveries long
deleted memories that start the host on
a path towards consciousness ford also
overrules lee Sizemore who typically
designs the park's narratives and
decides to mount a new story of his own
stunts in the time of war with the
villain cold what only Ford knows that
Wyatt is secretly Dolores he starts
pulling many hosts from their current
storylines and reclaiming large amounts
of land in the service of this new
storyline
Peter Abernathy currently programmed his
dolorous as father he's one of the hosts
whose updated with Arnold's reveries he
finds the photo of Williams fiancee that
was dropped long ago and this causes an
apparent malfunction several other hosts
who had the update also experienced
glitches including Maeve who after a
traumatic experience has been
reprogrammed as the madam of the brothel
and sweetwater the mariposa one host
known as the woodcutter goes completely
off course eventually getting stuck in a
canyon it's a stray cue Amy's attacked
him to go track it l see from the
behavior team and Stubbs the third
Hemsworth brother go to rescue him but
he kills himself with a rock before they
can do anything
you know like you do Teresa who runs a
security team grows concerned over the
hosts behavior she clashes with Bernard
who runs the hosts behavior division
that we also find out that they're
sleeping together
Maeve appears to wake up while the techs
are putting her back together again
which should be impossible with though
the guys attempt to keep returning her
to her loop she appears to become
self-aware and retain her memories she
eventually starts killing herself
purposefully to return to the lab may
have learns Westworld secrets and
becomes bent on escape the friending one
technician Felix and threatening another
Sylvester you can't hurt me with this
you can't hurt anyone Kanta who fun fact
was also the first voice of honest
trailers down in movie history in Friday
he lets her increase her intelligence
and other attributes she convinces them
to invest her with the ability to
control other hosts I'd like to make
some changes
meanwhile lamb takes a variety of hosts
hostage in his quest to find the mace
eventually he settles on the gunslinger
Teddy who believes that he's in a quest
to rescue his girlfriend Dolores as the
man to guide him there
Williams convinced that the mysterious
Wyatt the only character in West's world
he's never met is the secret to finding
the mace Dolores Ford enters the park to
meet up with William and tries to tell
him that the maze isn't designed for him
and won't hold any appeal but William
refuses to listen LC discovers that the
woodcutter has a secret satellite uplink
embedded within his body someone has
been using our host to smuggle data out
of the park
you see Delos wants to use all the data
that's been collected at Westworld for
30 years to do something seemingly
nefarious no the corporation's real
interest in this place goes way beyond
gratifying some rich [ __ ] who want
to play cowboy but as long as Ford keeps
all the data that they need safely
secured within the park Delos can't do
anything to remove him from his role he
could delete it all and they'd be
helpless before she can report back LC
is attacked and disappears fresh from
defeating hella on the Asgard Bifrost
Charlotte Hale arrives at West world
executive director of a board
she says she's here out of concern over
Ford's new narrative but secretly she's
the one who tests Teresa with using the
satellite uplink to transmit the data
out of the park Dallas wants to remove
Ford they just need to get all that
valuable data out before
while investigating the satellite uplink
Barnard discovers that Ford has hidden a
secret cottage in the park where
replicas of his family live out a
vacation he took as a young boy over and
over again these are the only ones left
in the park himself that's why I didn't
have the heart to destroy them
Arnold brings Teresa to a secret lab
underneath the old cottage so forth--
been making his own hosts out here until
he know one where it's revealed that
Bernard is a host and Ford programmed
him to come there I'm not one I can't be
and to prove it he makes Bernard kill
Teresa on his command whereupon he's
brought back online and wipes his memory
easy-peasy murder squeezy I need you to
be yourself to some spot resourceful
capable of covering your tracks
Charlotte next turns to Lee to help her
sneak the data out of the park this time
within the brain of Peter Abernathy
what are you uploading 35 years of
vitally important data it's more
information than any single drive could
hold a host brain however especially
once it's been emptied out like this
poor schmuck it's quite capacious
Charlotte tells Ford that he's out he
strangely doesn't put up a fight it
announced your retirement tonight after
introducing your new narrative Bernard
forces four to show him all his deleted
memories and puts together much of the
west-world backstory he realizes that in
addition to Maeve Ford also had him kill
Elsie William finds Dolores and realizes
she's been stuck in the same loop since
he first met her he makes her take him
to the maze but gets angry when he sees
that it's just a puzzle and has no
relevance for him a human being it's
like one big metaphor for everything
Jonathan Nolan's ever written locked the
man
they fight he stabs her and gets into
his tux and heads to forge big goodbye
celebration like you do teni finds the
bleeding dolores and she asked him to
take her to a place they both only
dreamed of I imagine something beautiful
place where the mountains meet the sea
he takes her there and they share a
tender parting moment as she dies but
then it's revealed that this is just the
final scene from Ford's new narrative
being presented before the Delos board
and guests just like the show is being
presented to us the viewers meta I want
to thank you for joining me tonight to
celebrate the beginning of our new
narrative I call it journey in tonight
back at the lab Maeve is making her
escape along with the help of two more
hosts Hector and armistice she boards
the train to leave but then decides
against it at the last moment but why we
don't know yet back to the big party the
entire Delos board is present including
William Ford's final narrative he
reveals in a speech is actually for the
house he has come to believe what Arnold
did that the hosts are more alive and
freer than humans
he's been orchestrating this all along
and has programmed the hosts to turn on
the humans and take over the part for
themselves it begins with the birth of a
new people and the choices they would
have to make
[Music]
and the people they were decide to
become he has Dolores shoot him in the
head and opened fire on the crowd
William is shot by other hosts and
smiles he thinks he's finally gotten
what he wants the hosts are free to
shoot back and now represent a real
adversary but are they really any more
free if they were just woken up by
Ford's new programming discuss Lee goes
on to grab Peter Abernathy and sneak him
out of the park but finds cold storage
empty all the hosts are in the park
running rampant a post-credits scene
shows us that armistice is survived
amputates a robot arm that was stuck in
a mechanical door and takes out a bunch
of Westworld guards whoa well that's
everything that happened in West world
season one and a bunch of stuff that
happened before West world season one
you should be all set for season two and
judging by the length of this video a
PhD in Applied robotics guys thanks for
watching cram it
we'll be back the next time you need to
know things about stuff
[Music]